What are your greatest strengths?

What are your greatest weaknesses?

Tell me about yourself.

How do you handle stress and pressure?

Describe a difficult work situation or project and how you overcame it.

What motivates you?

Are you overqualified for this job?

Why are you leaving or why have you left your job?

Why do you want this job?

Why should we hire you?

What are your goals for the future?

What was your most recent position?

What was your most recent compensation?

What was the last project you led, and what was its outcome?

Give me an example of a time that you felt you went above and beyond the call of duty at work. 

Can you describe a time when your work was criticized? 

Have you ever been on a team where someone was not pulling their own weight? How did you handle it? 

Tell me about a time when you had to give someone difficult feedback. How did you handle it? 

What is your greatest failure, and what did you learn from it? 

How do you handle working with people who annoy you? 

If I were your supervisor and asked you to do something that you disagreed with, what would you do?

What was the most difficult period in your life, and how did you deal with it? 

Give me an example of a time you did something wrong. How did you handle it? 

Tell me about a time where you had to deal with conflict on the job.
 
If you were at a business lunch and you ordered a rare steak and they brought it to you well done, what would you do? 

If you found out your company was doing something against the law, like fraud, what would you do? 

What assignment was too difficult for you, and how did you resolve the issue?
 
What's the most difficult decision you've made in the last two years and how did you come to that decision?

Describe how you would handle a situation if you were required to finish multiple tasks by the end of the day, and there was no conceivable way that you could finish them. 

Describe a situation in which you experienced significant unexpected project change. What was it? How did it impact you? How did you adapt to the change? How did you remain productive?

Tell me about a time you had to explain a complex programming problem to a person who doesn't understand technical jargon. How did you ensure that the other person understood what you were explaining?

Tell me about a time when you had to deal with a difficult person. How did you handle the situation?

Tell me about a situation when you made a mistake at work. What happened exactly and how did you deal with it? What steps did you take to improve the situation?

What steps do you follow to study a problem before making a decision?

Describe a time when you made a suggestion to improve something on the project that you were working on.

Tell me a time when you worked with a colleague who was not completing his or her share of the work.

Tell me about a time when you took ownership of a project. Why did you do this? What was the result of you taking the challenge? What could have happened if you did not take ownership?

What is the biggest problem you have faced on projects so far and how did you solve it? What made the problem difficult to resolve? What was the result? Would you do anything differently now?

Give an example when as a supervisor or group leader, you had to discipline or counsel an employee or group member. What was the nature of the discipline? What steps did you take?
Describe a situation in which you experienced difficulty in getting others to accept your ideas? What was your approach? How did this work? Were you able to successfully persuade someone to see things your way?

Tell me about a time when you felt particularly effective as a leader - either in an informal or formal role.

Describe a time when you felt uncomfortable in a leadership role.

How would you handle it if the priorities for a project you were working on were suddenly changed?

Give me an example of a time you had to take a creative and unusual approach to solve coding problem. How did this idea come to your mind? Why do you think it was unusual?

Give an example of an important goal which you had set in the past and tell me about your success in reaching it.

Tell me about a time when you had to present complex programming problem to a person that doesn’t understand technical jargon. How did you ensure that the other person understood you?

What motivates you to put forth your greatest effort?

Tell me about the most difficult situation you have had when leading a team. What happened and how did you handle it? Were you successful? What was the most important thing you did?

Describe the most difficult decision you have had to make in the past few years. What process did you go through? What was the outcome?

Tell us about the worst decision you have every made at work.

Give me an example of a time when you were able to successfully communicate with another person even when that individual may not have personally liked you (or vice versa).

Describe your most successful team experience. What was your role? Why was your team successful?

What was your most unpleasant team experience? How did it impact your team performance?

Describe a situation when you worked effectively under pressure. How did you feel when working under pressure? What was going on and how did you get through it?

Give me an example of a time when you noticed a small problem before it turned into a major one. Did you take the initiative to correct it? What kind of preventive measure did you undertake?

Give me a recent example of a stressful situation on the job. What happened? How did you handle it?

Think about an instance in which you had to depend on others to help you achieve a project goal. How did you feel?

Give me an example of a time when you were faced with a complex project related matter and you could not decide on the best way to deal with. What did you do? How did you go about making the decision -lead me through your decision process? If you could make the decision once again, would you change anything?

Think about an instance in which you worked on and achieved multiple project goals.

How do you determine priorities in scheduling your time? Give examples.

Give an example of a time when you didn’t agree with another programmer. Did you stand up for something that you believed was right?

Have you ever had to “sell” an idea to your project team? How did you do it? Did they “buy” it?

Describe a situation when you did much more than it was expected. Were your efforts recognized? By whom and how? How did that make you feel?

What are your greatest weaknesses?

What would prior co-workers say your weaknesses are?

What are your goals for the future?

Why should we hire you?

Think about an instance in which you came up with a project idea which was implemented primarily because of your efforts. What was it about? What was its outcome? What was your role?

What personal weakness has caused you the greatest difficulty in school or on the job?

Describe a time when your organization underwent drastic change. How did this affect you personally and professionally?

Tell us about a time when you had difficulty handling an organizational change.

Think about an instance in which you made a decision at work that was unpopular. How did you handle it?

Describe a situation in which you felt you had not communicated well enough. What did you do? How did you handle it?

Describe a time when you received negative feedback. How did it turn out?

Tell us about a time when you did not listen as well as you might have.

Tell me about a time when you had a disagreement with another programmer. How did you handle the situation? Were you able to reach a mutually beneficial resolution to that conflict? If not, why were you and your co-worker unable to reach a mutually beneficial resolution? If you knew then what you know now, what would you have done differently to either prevent the conflict, or to resolve it?

Describe a time when you translated an idea or project for a foreign marketplace. What issues did you have to consider?
Tell us about your most serious cross-cultural mistake.

Why should we hire you?

Think about a situation when you made a prior decision or did something that just didn’t turn out right. What happened?

Give me a specific occasion in which you conformed to a policy with which you did not agree.

Give me an example of working cooperatively as a team member to accomplish an important goal. What was the objective? To what extent did you interact with other project members?

Describe a time you developed an imaginative solution to a difficult problem.

Tell us about a time when you were unable to come up with a needed idea or approach.

How would you evaluate your ability to deal with conflict?

Tell me about a time when you had to go above and beyond the call of duty in order to get a job done.

Tell me about an instance when you had to communicate a really bad piece of news to your supervisor or team members. How did you handle it? What was the outcome?
Tell me about when you had to deal with conflict within your team. How was the conflict solved? How did you handle that? How would you deal with it now?

What did you do to prepare for this interview?

Tell us about a time that you had to compromise your personal standards to meet a deadline.

Describe a situation in which you had to adjust to changes over which you had no control. 
How did you do this?

What quality or attribute do you feel will most contribute to your career success?

Describe your most courageous act at work.

Describe a time when you took a risk and failed. What did you learn?

Why do you want this job?

Are you overqualified for this job?

What are you most proud of in your work career?

Tell s about a time when you failed to reach a desired result or achievement.

Has there been a time on project when you disagreed with someone? What did you do about it?

Describe the characteristics of a successful manager.

Describe a time when you had to take a stand against your peers or superiors.

Describe a work situation in which you lost confidence or were unsure of yourself. What did you do? How did it work out?

Tell me about a time you had to work on several projects at once. How did you handle this?

Provide an example of how you involve others in a project. What role(s) did you take?

What was your worst experience delegating work to another person? What did you learn from it?

In what area would others consider you an expert?

Within your profession, what areas or skills do you need to concentrate on the most in terms of your continued development?

How would you describe yourself?

Tell us about a time when you were involved in a system process improvement that involved new technology. What was your role? What was the outcome?

Tell us about your most difficult experience with technology.

Describe a situation on which you have experienced significant project change that you weren’t expecting. What was it? How did that impact you, and how did you adapt to this change? How did you remain productive through the project?

Tell me about a time when you had to work with a difficult person to accomplish a goal. What was the biggest challenge? How did you handle it?

Describe a situation when you had to persuade your peers, or people over whom you had no positional authority.

Tell us about a time when you had great difficulty motivating an individual or group. How did you modify your tactics? Were you ultimately successful?

Tell me about a situation that you had to speak up and be assertive in order to get a point across that was important for you.

Describe a situation in which you met a major obstacle in order to complete a project. How did you deal with it? What steps did you take?

Describe a situation in which you were able to use persuasion to convince someone to see things your way.

Describe a situation where you had to work in a team that didn’t get on very well. What happened? What did you do and what role did you take? How did the situation evolve?

Give me an example of a project that completely failed. Why do you think it was a failure? Could there be anything done differently in order to turn it into success?

Walk me through a difficult/complex problem/project you encountered. How did you decide what to do first? What information did you need? What obstacles did you face? Which ones were you able to overcome? Did you have to ask for help?

I’d be interested in hearing about a miscommunication you had with your supervisor. How did you solve it? What was the reason for that? How did you deal with that situation?

Provide an example of how you have incorporated or anticipated an industry trend to make a positive impact on your work.

What is your greatest weakness in terms of industry knowledge?

Tell me about a situation when you were responsible for project planning. Did everything go accordingly to your plan? If not, then why and what kind of counteractions did you have to take?

Give an example of an important project goal you reached and how you achieved it.

When has it been most difficult for you to see the best in people and situation?

Tell us about a time when you were unable to be positive about people or a circumstance.

Describe a difficult work situation/project and how you overcame it.

Tell me about a situation when you had problems working under pressure. How did you handle that situation? Did you decide to ask for support? How and when did you ask for help?

Tell me about a major problem you recently handled. Were you successful in resolving it?

How do you handle stress and pressure?

Why are you leaving or why have you left your job?
What is your target compensation?

Tell me about yourself.

What was your most recent compensation?

Describe a challenging formal presentation that you had to make. What was the outcome?

What was your most upsetting presentation experience? What would you do differently?

